#  2015 AoC Journey Blog


## 2021.02.13

Starting from 2015 and working my way forward. A couple of friends are going on the tour with me so we will stay roughly on the same puzzles. 

### Day 1

On the surface, this looks really easy. Just assign "(" as +1 and ")" as -1 and sum the counts of each. But I have a sneaky suspicion that I'll need to track the order in pt 2. On the other hand, I need to start solving the problem at hand rather than anticipating a possible problem from the future. So I'll go with the first idea and will probably have to change it.

What I'm doing is using a simple string filter on "(".count and subtracting ")".count. 

Pt2. 
I knew it. But I'm fine with that because I didn't chase ghost problems down into a rabbit hole.

Here, I'll just keep a running count of which floor I'm on and then return when I get to the magic number.


### Day 2

Well, day one was easy. The hardest part was getting back into the swing of swift.

This is a pretty strait-forward maths problem with a dash of parsing thrown in. I broke each segment into a distinct function so that if I have to bypass any part of in in part 2, I can more easily do that.

And that was a good choice. Pt2 was a remix of Pt1.

## 2021.02.13

### Day 3

Our first grid system. And I've already managed to over-engineer it. I started a Point type that can accept from 2 to 4 dimensions. I probably should have just tracked the x and y values and been done. 

Pt2 is interesting. It splits the instructions into 2 alternating sets. Not much of a change because of the way I parsed Pt1. 

It did turn out to be pretty convoluted. I should probably clean that up.

### Day 4

Pt1 is pretty strait-forward, if inefficient. It's not killing my processor, so brute force is fine. 

P2 is a big. I didn't have to change anything, though I added a start reference because I naively thought it would save some time. Not really. I don't know how long it would take to optimize for this problem, but it took a few mins to run on my fairly beefy laptop. 

Funny how crypto is in the news again right now (Dogecoin). 



